.TH RMW "1" "Jan 2022" "rmw 0.8.1" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
rmw \- safe-remove utility for the command line
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B rmw
[\fI\,OPTION\/\fR]... \fI\,FILE\/\fR...

Move FILE(s) to a WASTE directory listed in configuration file

.B rmw
\fB\-s\fR
.br
.B rmw
\fB\-u\fR
.br
.B rmw
\fB\-z\fR FILE...

Restore FILE(s) from a WASTE directory
.SH DESCRIPTION
rmw (ReMove to Waste) is a safe-remove utility for the command line. It
can move and restore files to and from directories specified in a
configuration file, and can also be integrated with your regular
desktop trash folder (if your desktop environment uses the
FreeDesktop.org Trash specification). One of the unique features of rmw
is the ability to purge items from your waste (or trash) directories
after x number of days.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
show help for command line options
.TP
\fB\-c\fR, \fB\-\-config\fR FILE
use an alternate configuration
.TP
\fB\-l\fR, \fB\-\-list\fR
list waste directories
.TP
\fB\-g[N_DAYS]\fR, \fB\-\-purge\fR[=\fI\,N_DAYS\/\fR]
purge expired files;
optional argument 'N_DAYS' overrides 'expire_age'
value from the configuration file
(Examples: \fB\-g90\fR, \fB\-\-purge\fR=\fI\,90\/\fR)
.IP
By default, purging is disabled ('expire_age' is set to '0' in the
configuration file). To enable, set the 'expire_age' value in your
config file to a value greater than '0'

You can use '-vvg' to see when the remaining files in the waste
directories will expire.
.TP
\fB\-o\fR, \fB\-\-orphaned\fR
check for orphaned files (maintenance)
.IP
An orphan is an item in a waste directory that has no corresponding
\fB.trashinfo\fR file, or vice versa. This option is intended primarily
for developers. Orphans may happen while testing code changes or if rmw
is unintentionally released with a bug.
.br
(see also: <https://remove-to-waste.info/faq.html#dot_trashinfo>)
.TP
\fB\-f\fR, \fB\-\-force\fR
allow purging of expired files
.IP
rmw will refuse to purge directories if they contain non-writable files
or subdirectories. rmw will show a message that tells you "permission
denied; directory still contains files". To override, you can re-run
rmw using '-ffg'.

By default, force is not required to enable the purge feature. If you would
like to require it, add 'force_required' to your config file.
.TP
\fB\-\-empty\fR
completely empty (purge) all waste directories
.TP
\fB\-r\fR, \fB\-R\fR, \fB\-\-recursive\fR
option used for compatibility with rm
(recursive operation is enabled by default)
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
increase output messages
.TP
\fB\-w\fR, \fB\-\-warranty\fR
display warranty
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
display version and license information
.IP
.SS RESTORING
.HP
\fB\-z\fR, \fB\-\-restore\fR FILE(s)
.IP
To restore items, specify the path to them in the <WASTE>/files
directory (wildcards ok).

When restoring an item, if a file or directory with the same name
already exists at the destination, the item being restored will have a
time/date string (formatted as "_%H%M%S-%y%m%d") appended to it (e.g. 'foo_164353-210508').
.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-select\fR
select files from list to restore
.IP
Displays a list of items in your waste directories. You can use the
left/right cursor keys to switch between waste directories. Use the
space bar to select the items you wish to restore, then press enter to
restore all selected items.
.TP
\fB\-u\fR, \fB\-\-undo\-last\fR
undo last move
.IP
Restores files that were last rmw'ed
.TP
\fB\-m\fR, \fB\-\-most\-recent\-list\fR
list most recently rmw'ed files
.SH ENVIRONMENT
These variables are intended only to be used for testing. See the
code-testing page on the rmw website for more details.
.TP
.B RMW_FAKE_HOME
.TP
.B RMW_FAKE_YEAR
.TP
.B RMW_FAKE_MEDIA_ROOT
.SH FILES
On some systems, $HOME/.config and $HOME/.local/share may be replaced
with $XDG_CONFIG_HOME and $XDG_DATA_HOME
.TP
.I $HOME/.config/rmwrc
configuration file
.TP
.I $HOME/.local/share/rmw/purge-time
text file that stores the time of the last purge
.TP
.I $HOME/.local/share/rmw/mrl
text file containing a list of items that were last rmw'ed
.SH NOTES
rmw will not move items from one file system to another. If you try to
rmw a file but don't have a waste directory configured that matches the
file system on which it resides, rmw will refuse to do anything with
it.
.SS DESKTOP INTEGRATION
Items will be moved to a waste basket in the same manner as when using
the "move to trash" option from your desktop GUI. They will be
separated from your desktop trash by default; or if you wish for them
to share the same "trash" directory, uncomment the line (in your config
file):

(Note that this does not apply to MacOS; while rmw is yet unable to
integrate with the desktop trash directory, you'll still be able to use
the default Waste directory.)

.RS
WASTE = $HOME/.local/share/Trash
.RE

then comment out the line

.RS
WASTE = $HOME/.local/share/Waste
.RE

You can reverse which directories are enabled at any time if you ever
change your mind. If both directories are on the same filesystem, rmw will
use the directory listed first in your config file.

It can be beneficial to have them both uncommented. If your desktop
trash directory (~/.local/share/Trash) is listed after the rmw default
(~/.local/share/Waste) and uncommented, rmw will place newly rmw'ed
items into the default, and it will purge expired files from both.

When rmw'ing an item, if a file or directory with the same name already
exists in the waste (or trash) directory, it will not be overwritten;
instead, the current file being rmw'ed will have a time/date string
(formatted as "_%H%M%S-%y%m%d") appended to it (e.g. 'foo_164353-210508').
.SS REMOVABLE MEDIA
The first time rmw is run, it will create a configuration file.
Waste directories will be created automatically (Except for when the ',removable'
option is used; see below) e.g., if '$HOME/.local/share/Waste' is uncommented in
the config file, these two directories will be created:

.RS
$HOME/.local/share/Waste/files
.br
$HOME/.local/share/Waste/info
.RE

If a WASTE directory is on removable media, you may append ',removable'.
In that case, rmw will not try to create it; it must be
initially created manually. When rmw runs, it will check to see if the
directory exists (which means the removable media containing the
directory is currently mounted). If rmw can't find the directory, it is
assumed the media containing the directory isn't mounted and that
directory will not be used for the current run of rmw.

With the media mounted, once you manually create the waste directory
for that device (e.g. "/mnt/flash/.Trash-$UID") and run rmw, it will
automatically create the two required child directories "files" and "info".
.SH EXAMPLES
.SS RESTORING
rmw -z ~/.local/share/Waste/files/foo
.br
rmw -z ~/.local/share/Waste/files/bars*
.SS CONFIGURATION
.TP
WASTE=/mnt/flash/.Trash-$UID, removable
When using the removable attribute, you must also manually create the directory
.TP
expire_age = 45
rmw will permanently delete files that have been in the waste (or
trash) for more than 45 days.
.SH AUTHORS
Project Manager: Andy Alt
.br
The RMW team: see AUTHORS.md
.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report bugs to <https://github.com/theimpossibleastronaut/rmw/issues>.
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
Copyright \(co 2012-2022 Andy Alt

License GPLv3+: GNU GPL version 3 or later <https://gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>.
.br
This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it.
There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
mv(1), rm(1), rmdir(1)
.PP
.br
Full documentation at: <https://remove-to-waste.info/>
