.TH RMW 1 2017-10-14
.SH NAME
rmw - remove files, safely
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBrmw\fR \fI[OPTION]\fR... FILE...
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBrmw\fR is a safe-delete utility that sends files to your "Desktop" 
trash (or a completely separate folder). It can also restore files and permanently
delete files that were rmw'ed more than a certain (configurable) number of days ago.
.SH RESTORING FILES
To restore a file, or multiple files, use the \fB\-z\fR (or \fB\-\-restore\fR) option 
and specify the path to them in in the \fI<WASTE>/files\fR folder (wildcards ok).
e.g. '\fBrmw \-z ~/.local/share/Trash/files/foo*\fR'.
.SH PURGING
If purging is 'on', \fBrmw\fR will permanently delete files from the folders
specified in the configuration file after 'x' number of days. 
Purging can be disabled by using '\fBpurge_after = 0\fR' in configuration file. 
\fBrmw\fR will only check once per day if it's time to purge (use \fB\-g\fR to check more often).
Purge requires \fB\-f\fR (\fB\-\-force\fR) to run (in your \fBrmw\fR configuration file, add
the line '\fBforce_not_required\fR' if you'd rather not use \fB\-\-force\fR when purging).
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-B \-\-bypass\fR
Ignore directory protection settings.
.TP
\fB\-c \-\-config\fR \fIfilename\fR
Use an alternate configuration file.
.TP
\fB\-f \-\-force\fR
Allow rmw to purge files in the background.
.TP
\fB\-g \-\-purge\fR
Purge waste directories (permanently remove files).
.TP
\fB\-h \-\-help\fR
Display a help screen and exit.
.TP
\fB\-l \-\-list\fR
List waste directories.
.TP
\fB\-o \-\-orphaned\fR
Check for orphaned files (for maintenance tasks).
.TP
\fB\-s \-\-select\fR
Displays a list to select files to restore.
.TP
\fB\-u \-\-undo-last\fR
Undo last safe removal.
.TP
\fB\-v \-\-verbose\fR
Print extra information on the output.
.TP
\fB\-w \-\-warranty\fR
Display warranty information and exit.
.TP
\fB\-V \-\-version\fR
Display version and licensing information and exit.
.TP
\fB\-z \-\-restore\fR \fIpattern\fR
Restore files matching \fIpattern\fR.
.SH DIRECTORIES
The program's configuration files are stored in \fB~/.config/rmw/\fR.
By default, the safe-removed files are stored in \fB~/.trash.rmw/\fR.
.SH LICENCE
This program is published under the terms of the GNU General Public License,
version 2 or any later version, as published by the Free Software Foundation.
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Andy Alt, with contributions from others.
